---
layout: lesson
title: "lesson7"
---


7 linked indouble album time: So this week #7 was on marketing and leadership and I wanted to emphasize something. In doing this work, it's not like I'm some sheep herder which tells people what to do. I think I do things very communally selfishly, so that when I work with someone its not for others to follow me, but so that I can lean on another or harvest their energy (with their consent if you wanna think about it like that). Equally I share things with others. I do this so that from shared efforts combined, there emerges something good, and I decide based on that if what I'm doing is good or not.  Anyways, I wanted to build this from last week #6 on structure, and I realized that what I made and failed on was not a structure at all, but a requirement and mission statement. I said that there must be growth, but that is not what we I was aiming for. It is the requirement. Anyone in this sense can grow, but is not bound to think of themselves as moving towards growth, as we heard from one of the ted talks, what makes things grow is you and your spirit. So in this sense the requirement is that people be themselves and have freedom to do so. As well, here are a few others that I came up with 1. spirit/ freedom 2. Efficiency & energy (balls) 3. Steps / planning (ex: you have to have foundation before building) 4. culture & consideration I'ma go personal here and say that I think in this sense, I got a taste of what leadership requires when someone disagreed with me or if anything talked back to me :0... For this reason, I say again, I am no sheep herder, but there must be some type of way to tell if what another person does is damaging or not to the work I do, and the words I came up with come from law or jurisprudence (which I think must be very carefully considered when assuming this action of leadership). The words were sabotage & mutiny.  Mutiny describes when someone wants to usurp the current power, and sabotage is when someone tries to destroy or halt progress. Anyways this person did not do any of these in the example I shared and equally I didn't do anything about it bc people are people. Finally, there must be other things beside knowing justice if you want to do leadership towards growth (or creation of value through services/products/mediation) and the ones I came up with were from chatGPT and are all together 1) Law 2) collaboration & efficiency 3) Long-term thinking 4) adaptability 5) navigating uncertainty So in terms of building something in this self-course, I call it marketing/ leadership because not only are you directing scale (I use this word bc scale incorporates all previous actions being done to create value), but you are also in charge of managing communication between you and the public whether it be through what you present or who you communicate with. For example onboarding or investors. Next week I'm going to wrap up and it'll be based on cycles and analysis.