---
layout: lesson
title: "lesson5"
---

W5 sharedWhats up yall, I wanted to share what I learned from last week. Last week, we learned about Evaluation and scale. From what I got, I wanted to start of by describing some things that they draw on. Though this does build up from all past weeks, they mainly stem from topics from these two weeks: our priority/schedule(W3), investments(W4). To recap, we consider business as having the basis of making value within a service, product or mediation of things between two or more parties. We assume that we have some thing that draws us money and go from there. So if we consider this thing like service or something, then we can say from that what we need to do to make money, and why it exists in the first place in form of a general market + its limits. Once we start to consider this service (though again it can be a product or mediation which creates value), we can think of how to make more of it. At least I did here, but you can also think about how to maintain it too or something, but time here plays a big role. Because we want to at least continue to make it, we think then of priorities needed to do the service. Incentives also come into the picture, because as it turns out, we need a reason to do the things that we do. This is I think the juice that gives deals and service their trust, so its also a humanity factor that we should consider. Moving forward, in order to build this, we think about the investments and risk on these smaller duties that are needed to complete our service. As it turns out, as we think about time, its not only that we can favor our most important priorities because they all have value. If they all aren't performed, then we aren't able to continue to do our service in the long run. We normally think of investments as giving us a larger return later for the small compounding effects we do now. I then drew a contrast to how risk is thought about as being the inference you draw not when you want to get somewhere (as in if I invest in this, will I be able to get there), all path lead to roam, but the goal, limited as it is now, is based on how willing you are able to engage in it. This has one benefit of being able to be transferred to other markets and encourages you to think about the limits that those places will have. Now lets think about evaluation and scale. Consider first, that we have those lists of tasks that make our service based on priorities, and we want to create value. What we kind of saw, is that those tasks are able to be done in separately. Now, we solidify the idea of investments and say that each of those tasks have their own value (whether through value-in & value-out or you can think about cash in and cash out, since this is what we want to think about when growing value). As it should be, even if we think about the ability to do these things, they all cost something and bring us something in return. This is mainly so we can distinctly point to something and give it metrics. So we end up having a list of prioritized tasks and they all cost something of value to do and give us value in return. They actually all interact with each other, and if you want to grow your service, how your tasks interact with each other would also be worth looking at. I tied this earlier to me wanting to learn so an interaction would look like me reading books, making opinions on them, this interaction makes me do things or "good things happen" or whatever. And it is the case that if we look at our service as a whole and want to get metrics or to fully describe it, we should look at those tasks and interactions, similarly to chemistry, they all have their unique abilities and limits. Anyways, now that we know what our service does, the priorities behind it and value that it generates, and therefore, how it can react [IT MUST!], we can think about scaling. One important thing that I learned about scaling needed to bring three things: a tempo, a goal/limit, and growth itself (because in the case of learning, to grow, not only do you need to learn different things, but you need to continue to learn on top of what you already have learned, so the behavior of growth is similar in this way too). So pretty much what I learned in terms of scale from last weeks video, was that there is a good way to scale, and a bad way to scale. Of course this relates to humanities. To do scaling, it can't just be willy nilly, if not it can end very badly and you can bet everything on red and lose everything, in biology and evolution this is considered the culling effect where the weakest die off. So, for good practice, a goal and a tempo are set, where we look at our tempo of an act being performed (ie read a book, right a review, read a book, right a review etc.) and the goal is what you want to gain or where to be. So, for every beat of a tempo, you can check to see if you're any further in your goal and if not you better switch up if not you'll mutate and thats not good. Finally, for the risk of scaling, if you achieve everything, then you'll be in another stage of your journey. Where a each stage has its own unique set of behaviors that are focused on. My big takeaway from this week was that investing on your soul is a good thing.  This week I'm covering structures/ maybe exit strategies, and next week is marketing, after that are cycles