---
layout: lesson
title: "lesson6"
---


6 sharedNever again!! jkjk Quick update on the business self-exploring thing I'm doing. I had a bit of a rough patch last week, so here's a post-mortem on why what I did wasn't working or why it was slow and what I came up with this week. Too, I guess that's my exit strategy. To recap, the emphasis of this is to create value through a product,service,mediation and is the basis of what we are doing. I'll set up last week (#6) by mentioning week #5 which was "evaluation & scaling" (recall scaling requires 3 things: a goal to reach, a tempo or intervals, and growth itself since there can be progress or deformation/mutation). I think where I want to start is by saying that what I was doing last week, was looking at growth as the inherent thing I should structure or model something after, but this is not the goal. I tried to make a claim and model from something I was expecting and that is not the way to do things. So in my example, I would look at all available things I was doing in my work and try and focus or keep all the things that resulted in growth and try and structure around that. I looked at the relationships between, for example, deals I made(Note week 1), and what types of deals would result in growth... Kinda hard to do. Though this wasn't wasted efforts though because this week I was looking at structure, and it helped me create a mission statement. More on this later. So no, in a structure, you shouldn't be limited by what you ought to do. As in, you shouldn't be grouped based on what you discover and that discovery has to be always growth, instead what you need is a basis or axioms. This week, I changed direction, brought on by my other math class and it mentioned groups. From this, I looked into a business as an entity so I looked at actions of an entity such as 1.grouping -- a) parent company/ inheritance (alphabet vs google) b) acquisition (idk agar.io?) c) mergers 2. private/ public state--  a) decision makers 3. behaviors (products/services/mediation) --  a)buy b)sell c)trade 4. life / death (again legal entity) a. genesis (IPO/ privatization) b. during life (going public/ private [reverse IPO?] 5. Monopoly a. competition, cooperation, predation etc. Finally, I'd like to touch on the general public. The reason why is because as it relates to a structure, when things are public, there are investors from the public who form a board of directors or whatever and pretty much tell you what or how they want to see things. In a privat company/structure, you don't have as much investment, at the cost of your freedom. So the general public is huge and is something that should be considered when talking about structuring. As well, we could talk about income such as active/passive/capital gains, since those kind of affect the industry you're in and activities you do, but that's extra. So, yes I did take long, and it was because I was trying to make something from discovery, when I should have made something based on axioms. I share this stuff bc I'd like to hear your thoughts if you have any if not no worries.