---
layout: lesson
title: "lesson4"
---

W4 sharedThough, there are probably many reasons why this could or couldn't be useful to you, I'll try add things that you can latch on to, question, and importantly, disagree with. As it relates to these little notes that I've been taking, this week I decided to learn about risk and investments. This I think is cool because I got to revisit risk differently than when I first introduced it, as an inherent force in commerce. Here's how I learned it btw in weeks 1. Deals/ commerce (market space - supply/demand, limits, risk) 2. Strategy to improve returns & defining players (industries, composition/ communication, ) 3. Scheduling - priority & incentives (types: oncall/9-5, behavior & duration in the field [quality vs quantity]) 4. investments in the market- maintenance vs performance & behavior of a market [voltare] (Risk/reward, defense and staying power, getting to the big boys table/ making the deals [strategy]) 5. Evaluation & scale (schedule pt 2: stages & growth) I think what I got out of it was that for this to work (assuming you have a job or some way to make value through production of goods, services, mediations) I think once you have enough experience getting into different places, you start to learn how you want to play the game. Such as, how you play well, who you play with, and what are you willing to do for it. I think what was interesting for me was learning that in competitions, sometimes it feels like something you're doing is defensive, but defensive to what or who? -- Defensive to losing your spot to another person & not necessarily defensive to another persons actions. More so their drive. In this case, people lose, and is part of the game, so you can have insurance and other things to reduce your risk of it.  Finally, people talk about confidence in your judgments (investments) & I think I kinda disagree with that. Sure you could say I'm confident in the choices I make because they get me where I'm supposed to go, but this isn't defining risk. Everyone can get where they want to go. Defining risk is to say: how agressive do I want to be. Open question (and I'd love to hear): Aggression doesn't have much to do with confidence, why?I think a preface should be like “this is all in the name of making value”. There are many ways to live your lives, but here I’m limiting it to how to make value or money. That and my statements are very introductory for someone who wants to get into this topic.That being said, people do a lot of things to make them money. It doesn’t have to be a 1-1 I work you pay me, it can also be I learn about this and later I make a company about it. So once you start to have enough experience making this value, then you can see how you want to make it, depending on your goals so if you’re short on time or are entirely different subjects like law vs research or something like thatThis is building from the idea of what’s is possible, priority is one thing for what you must do, and the rest is like your spending money. Of course this is general bc you can change later what you want to prioritize or do, but this would be focusing your accuracy in terms of once you decide your AI model is gonna do this, the next step would be to say well how accurate do I want it to be.This I think I disagree with I think form a personal sense, but if I were to apply it to the above example it would be “well if my model isn’t even accurate (work) or worth my time, then what then”. As it it’ll do what I want to do, but how agressive I want to be depends on what I want to do with it so it’s again removed