---
layout: lesson
title: "lesson8"
---


www.instagram.com%2Freel%2FDNisdVSs6aQ%2F%3Figsh%3DMW02d2ZoY2FoMGI2ag%3D%3D&messageThreadUrn=urn%3Ali%3AmessagingThread%3A2-ZGY2OWZlNzQtOTYwYi00YzYxLTg2ZTQtZTFlMTk4NDNkZmY5XzAxMw%3D%3D&lipi=urn%3Ali%3Apage%3Ad_flagship3_messaging_conversation_detail%3B75MGpOumTq2st14WRfP2rQ%3D%3DThis video did lots of numbers on my feed both on IG and twitter and there are people here to tie the thing to difference in cultures. The video actually is a good intro to what I was taking a look at this last week, which was cycles. The idea she's talking about has probably been around for a while, but as I first learned it, it was talked about by a dude named henri bergson (go white people amiright). A little backstory, this dude thinks there's two types of time discrete time and a experienced time. Its helpful when we talk about business deals and all that as being on others time because that's who we make deals with. This leaves very small room though for this other type of time which I think has just enough space for us to capture something in terms of the goal of this small self-course, which is the idea of creating value, through mediation, products, or services.Idk It might be too late, but as I mentioned last week, I like surprises, they kind of show me in what stage I am with work. I also for example worked this last term with a group and even when people describe a project for work, they usually describe it as a three stage thing. I found "the heroes' journey" as being something you can map to this. Similarly, in control theory, this idea of a feedback loop is really important so what I think that told me (and feel free to chime in) is that for us to make value, in ourselves, is to develop a framework where we see where we are in the work. For example, you can have some type of alarm or a calendar that tells you in what stage you should do something. I think this is useful as I mentioned in the week of scaling where you need to have a "rhythm" so that you can see if you're scaling in the right direction. Depending on the deal or project, you could have different times that tell you when it is finished. When it finishes though idk? maybe yall could shed light when yall have finished something?