---
layout: lesson
title: "lesson2"
---

W2 sharedI wanna explore the idea of an industry bc I’m taking a course in applied computing from a polytech school and they teach different than psu which classifies as a research school. There’s a specific character that I see in the polytech school which isn’t in a research school as much and I’m wondering what type of growth an industry would have. Kinda what’s the end goal for industry, and as a result what even is an industry or examples industries are questions I’d like to exploreThis week in my self taught course I’m learning about industries, last week was deals and risk but I’m behindimpartialsI think this is tied with three ideas: impartiality, justly, advocacy.I wouldn’t go into this but I felt it was good to set some precedence. I think the reason I’m wrong is because being impartial as you said is to be open to an idea and you can’t do that while being swayed to one thing or idea. Though if you think of something as being either right or wrong, you would be talking about whether something is just or not. In that case, I think the important thing is when you make a decision, for example being just would not be making a decision right away, but until some point or some rule has been met. And finally, in a public setting, advocacy is when you make some points or arguments and instead of declaring it so, you empower others to share their views. And this here is not the right interpretation of being impartial because it has no basis to share with the word impartial as I wrote above. What goes right here is having the quality of justice which is the umbrella for impartiality, or the act of being impartial. If what I said at first was right then every judge here would be sentenced to death or some shit because every judge has their own policy but it doesn’t mean they aren’t being just. That’s why the call them the judge. So not everyone is impartial, the people who are are probably born with it or something (imagine that btw!) but to be impartial is instead to be just bc you have to consider what rule is in question to judge against.The reason I mentioned advocacy here too is because being impartial is not enough to discover truth or be fair. You can imagine the phrase is half a truth a lie?That’s why courtroooms also have attorneys bc they help find out what’s up