---
layout: lesson
title: "lesson1"
---

Week 1 – commerce (how do I win?)I mentioned that I wanted to learn more about business and so here it is. It is important to note that the scope here is everything including business, so maybe commerce might be the better way to group the field. I started the field of commerce learning about what even is commerce, it started with me learning about the process of deals. This thing called deals, can alter or decide what you do in commerce. These are consequences of deals but first lets talk about what a deal is. A deal is any type of communication between two or more parties towards the exchange of value. Value being: goods, services, inter-mediation. We can see then, that whatever we do, we must go through agreements for how we want to interact, and therefore exchange. This view however, is self focused, and isn’t how we should approach it, instead, we should approach the view as: what types of deals are we making, and not what are we doing, that happens to share overlap with commerce. (this is a lie, and you can actually do both, just note that they are two different frameworks for thinking).And this must be the basis of any commerce then, the exchange, and specifically, the creation of value. There is no other way that we are able to interact with money, than to grow it. If it is such that we want to know more about it, this is what it is used for. It isn’t something that we just have, we need it to live, and to live isn’t just brought about by coincidence, it is directed and the direction that we see here (in this side of the world) is to grow it.Next, we learned about something called risk. In order for us to even grow anything, we must take risk. Although the idea of evaluation is attractive, first we talk about risk. Evaluation will come once we start talking about investing. So, we want to grow something, is that right? We should be careful, what we do, make, or act on behalf of is all a part of something that someone else must have done, no? We note, starting out, what we even CAN do, is limited by whats in existence. So, what is in existence, try your luck in anything you like. People from different backgrounds have different ways to grow stuff: farmers, bankers, traders. You name it. What you can do is determined by the space available, and believe it or not, is already accounted for. This market space, is yours, and is relative. Considering you're barely starting out, is the most efficient (least) commerce can go. Then as you try to grow your business, you start to think about how to change things, again this has its own space, and therefore, has its limits. Because resources are limited and therefore you are too, you can only make something that brings you money, so efficient, or do it for so long. So now we can talk about doing something else.Doing something else has everything to do with risk. Because we note that what we first do just is, when we start to do something else, we take away from what is already being done. This introduces trade-offs, better known generally as risk. With this concept, we juggle between things, with the goal of trying to create more value. They say that the greater the risk means the greater the payoff, or like take risks when you’re young, but this isn’t true. We’ll get to this later in the investment sections and returns, but for now, we should note the counter example: a well diversified low risk can give better and steadier results that one big very risky act.We close this then, with the idea of efficiency vs endurance. Again, note that we are limited by time. There is only so much that we can do, but what we do is again governed by what we are able to do. If we want to do something so we’re good at it, we’ll opt for efficiency, but if we want to do something for our own sake, value and wants, then we opt in for endurance.